
CS-305: Software Security course from SNHU
* * * * *


**Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?**
> Artemis Financial is a finanical consulting firm that has hired Global Rain, and me by extension, to develop a web application to modernize their operations. Artemis Financil deals in plans for savings, retirement, investments, and insurance for their customers. Global Rain has been hired to develop an application for customers to upload files and access accounts, and their primary concern is the verification of data transfer. 

**What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company's overall wellbeing?**
> One of the strengths of this project was generating checksum values based on various different encryption algorithms to ensure data validation regardless of security protocol. Coding securely should be the most important aspect of coding, regardless of the scope of the application; ensuring the customers data security as well as that of the company -- especially in an age where digital attacks/piracy are on the rise -- should be considered during every step of the Software Development Life Cycle. 

**What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?**
> Reading and understanding the vulnerability report generated by using Maven dependency checks I found to be especially difficult. There was a lot of information to parse, most of which I was unfamiliar with before starting this course. I do think that running dependency checks is extremely important, especially for applications that rely heavily on frameworks and external APIs to gather and manipulate data. 

**How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?**
> My approach to adding security layers on the application revolved around the use of multiple encryption algorithms. Different aspects of the application require different approaches to security based on the action being taken. For example, some algorithms are easier/better suited for validating the data within a file, while still others are more focused on user credential authentication. A multi-layered technique of encryption/security is a practice I find myself looking towards for future applications and projects. 

**How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?**
> In terms of functionality, I tested each aspect of the web application individually before testing for proper integration of internal and external resources. After making any changes to the code, running additional vulnerability checks helped ensure I did not introduce more errors. 

**what resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?**
> Documentation for the Spring framework, as well as tutorials on how to generate and read vulnerability reports were a large part of developing this project. I find that reading the documentation for a specific tool or programming lanaguge can be helpful especially while working with a tool you are yet unfamiliar with. 

**Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?**
> I would showcase the vulernatiblity reports, or more accurately, the documentation and interpretation I developed based on the reports findings. I believe that understanding security reports such as that are an essential aspect of web development, especially for future employers. While I may not be completely confident in my abilities to read and interpret these reports, I do feel like this project has put me on a path of better understanding. 
